Distributed Programming I
Web Programming Test Assignment
Submission deadline January 25, 2017, 11.59p.m.
Build a simplified version of a website for managing user comments (with associated scores and feedbacks given by
other users) related to the purchase of a given item via an ecommerce system. For the sake of simplicity, the web site
considers only one item. The website must have the following features:
1. Any visitor can access the website without authentication to see the list of comments related to the purchased item,
including a score (from 0 to 5) and the feedbacks given to the comment itself by other users (see below). At the
beginning of the list, the average value of the scores must be displayed.
2. Each user can sign up freely for the website, by providing only name, surname, password and a valid email address.
When a user signs up successfully for the website, he/she is automatically logged in.
3. A logged-in user can insert a new comment related to the item, which must be accompanied by a corresponding score
from 0 to 5. A user cannot insert more than one comment. A logged-in user can also express a usefulness feedback
concerning the score associated to a comment expressed by any other user, by assigning it the value of +1 or -1. This
feedback does not modify the score of the comment, rather it increments or decrements the total feedback given to the
comment itself. The initial total feedback of a new comment is zero. Each user can give a feedback to a comment up to
a maximum of three times. It is not necessary to keep track of every single feedback given by one user to a comment,
but it is necessary to avoid that the user inserts more than three feedbacks for a single comment.
4. For simplicity, a user cannot modify his/her own comment, but he/she can only delete the comment and, possibly,
after having deleted it, insert a new one. In this case, the score and the total feedback associated to the old comment
must be deleted from the system. A user can delete only his/her own comment and not those belonging to other users.
5. In the delivered project there must be three registered users, u1@p.it, u2@p.it, and u3@p.it, with passwords p1, p2
and p3, respectively. Each one of these users must have already made a comment, with scores 3, 4, and 1, respectively.
Moreover, the first user must have inserted a feedback equal to +3 (that is, three times +1) to the comment of the second
user, and +1 to the comment of the third user. The second user must have inserted a -1 to the comment of the first user
and -2 (that is, two times -1) to the comment of the third user. The third user must not have expressed any feedback to
the comments of the other users. The final situation thus shall be as follows:
- 1st comment: score 3, feedback -1
- 2nd comment: score 4, feedback +3
- 3rd comment: score 1, feedback -1
6. Authentication by username and password must be performed whenever the user logs into the system. Authentication
must remain valid if no more than two minutes have elapsed since the last page load. If the user requests an operation
after the deadline of 2 minutes since the previous page load, the operation does not have effect and the user is forced to
re-authenticate with username and password. HTTPS is mandatory for the registration/authentication and in every part
of the site concerning information related to a registered/authenticated user.
7. The general layout of the web pages will contain: a header in the upper part, a navigation bar on the left side with
links or buttons to carry out the possible operations and a central part which is used for the main operation.
8. Cookies and Javascript must be enabled, otherwise the website may not work properly (in that case, for what 
concerns cookies, the user must be alerted and the website navigation must be forbidden, for what concerns Javascript
the user must be informed). Forms should be provided with small informational messages in order to explain the
meaning of the different fields. These messages may be put within the fields themselves or may appear when the mouse
pointer is over them.
9. The more uniform the views and the layouts are by varying the adopted browser, the better.
10. Extra requirement (only for students having the 8-credits course): the list of comments (visible by all visitors) must
include initially only up to 3 comments and a button labelled “More Comments” that can be used to expand the list with
more comments. Each pressure of the button must add 3 more items to the list. AJAX has to be used in the client side in
order to get more items of the list from the server. The AJAX request must be issued just after having expanded the list,
so that new items are loaded and made immediately available to be viewed as soon as the button is pressed. The AJAX
request must use XML for data transfer.
Submission instructions:
The instructions already published in the Material folder of the course web page for the installation on the
cclix11.polito.it, still hold. Furthermore, you need to submit your project (the same that you installed on cclix11) in a
zip file named sXXXXXX.zip (without blank spaces in the name) to the following web site:
https://pad.polito.it/enginframe/dp1/dp1.xml (from inside the Politecnico network) or
https://pad.polito.it:8080/enginframe/dp1/dp1.xml (from outside).
In addition:
1. The sql script included in the zip file (submitted to pad.polito.it) to create the database must have a name with the
following pattern: sXXXXXX.sql (where XXXXXX is your own student id).
2. The main page of your web site must be put in a file named index.html or index.php in your SECRET_FILDER such
that the website can be accessed at the url http://cclix11.polito.it/~sXXXXXX/SECRET_FOLDER without adding any
other resource name at the end of the SECRET_FOLDER.
3. DO NOT use absolute links
WARNING: The system that accepts your projects, works in an automatic way and it will stop accepting
submissions at the scheduled deadline. For this reason, we recommend you DO NOT submit your work in the
very last minutes before the final deadline.
In case of any doubt and question related to the project, please firstly visit the forum in the course website in order to
check if other students have already asked the same question. Otherwise use the forum (not the teacher email) to ask
your question so that the response will be available to all students.
The forum is to be used exclusively for requests of clarification about the text of the assignment and not for requesting
help about how to solve it or how to solve specific problems encountered during the execution of the assignment
